---
title: "Deploy Tyk Self Managed using Helm Chart"
date: 2022-07-10
tags: ["Tyk Self Managed", "Tyk Stacks", "Kubernetes"]
description: "How to deploy Tyk Self Managed on Kubernetes using new Helm Chart"

aliases:
  - /tyk-self-managed/tyk-helm-chart-single-dc
---

Tyk is working to provide a new set of helm charts, and will progressively roll them out at [tyk-charts](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts). It will provide component charts for all Tyk Components, as well as umbrella charts as reference configurations for open source and Tyk Self Managed users. Please check out the latest status from our [Github repository](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts).

To deploy Tyk Self Managed (for single data center) using the new helm chart, please use [tyk-stack](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts/tree/main/tyk-stack) chart.

## What components are deployed with Tyk Stack Chart?

`tyk-stack` provides the default deployment of Tyk Self Managed on a Kubernetes cluster. It will deploy all required Tyk components with the settings provided in the values.yaml file.

It includes:
- Tyk Gateway, an Open Source Enterprise API Gateway (supporting REST, GraphQL, TCP and gRPC protocols).
- Tyk Pump, an analytics purger that moves the data generated by your Tyk nodes to any back-end. Furthermore, it has all the required modifications to easily connect to Tyk Cloud or Multi Data Center (MDCB) control plane.
- Tyk Dashboard, a license based component that provides a graphical management interface and analytics platform for Tyk.
- Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal, a full-fledged CMS-like system for API providers to publish, monetise and drive the adoption of APIs.

By default, this chart installs the following components as sub-charts on a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) package manager.
| Component | Enabled by Default? | Flag |
| --------- | ------------------ | ---- |
| Tyk Gateway   |true  | n/a                    |
| Tyk Dashboard |true  | n/a                    |
| Tyk Pump      |true  | global.components.pump |
| Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal | false | global.components.devPortal |

To enable or disable each component, change the corresponding enabled flag.

Also, you can set the version of each component through `image.tag`. You could find the list of version tags available from [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/tykio).

<hr/>

## Prerequisites

* [Kubernetes 1.19+](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/)
* [Helm 3+](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* [Redis](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-oss/ce-helm-chart/#recommended-via-bitnami-chart) should already be installed or accessible by the gateway.
* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) or [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) should already be installed or accessible by the gateway.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

If you want to enable Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal, please use PostgreSQL. MongoDB is not supported in Developer Portal.
{{< /note >}}

<hr/>

## Quick Start Guides
The following guides provide instructions to install Redis, PostgreSQL/MongoDB, and Tyk stack with default configurations. It is intended for quick start only. For production, you should install and configure Redis and MongoDB / PostgreSQL separately.

{{< tabs_start >}}

{{< tab_start "Quick Start with PostgreSQL" >}}

The following quick start guide explains how to use the Tyk Stack Helm chart to configure a Dashboard that includes:
- Redis for key storage
- PostgreSQL for app config
- Tyk Pump to send analytics to PostgreSQL. It also opens a metrics endpoint where Prometheus (if available) can scrape from.

At the end of this quickstart Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

**1. Setup required credentials**

First, you need to provide Tyk license, admin email and password, and API keys. We recommend to store them in secrets.

```bash
NAMESPACE=tyk

API_SECRET=changeit
ADMIN_KEY=changeit
TYK_LICENSE=changeit
ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@default.com
ADMIN_PASSWORD=changeit

helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update

kubectl create namespace $NAMESPACE

kubectl create secret generic my-secrets -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-literal=APISecret=$API_SECRET \
    --from-literal=AdminSecret=$ADMIN_KEY \
    --from-literal=DashLicense=$TYK_LICENSE

kubectl create secret generic admin-secrets -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-literal=adminUserFirstName=Admin \
    --from-literal=adminUserLastName=User \
    --from-literal=adminUserEmail=$ADMIN_EMAIL \
    --from-literal=adminUserPassword=$ADMIN_PASSWORD
```

**2. Install Redis (if you don't already have Redis installed)**

If you do not already have Redis installed, you may use these charts provided by Bitnami.

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-redis oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/redis -n $NAMESPACE --install --set image.tag=6.2.13
```
Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details and password. The DNS name of your Redis as set by Bitnami is `tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc:6379` (Tyk needs the name including the port) 

The Bitnami chart also creates a secret `tyk-redis` which stores the connection password in `redis-password`. We will make use of this secret in installation later.

**3. Install PostgreSQL (if you don't already have PostgreSQL installed)**

If you do not already have PostgreSQL installed, you may use these charts provided by Bitnami.

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-postgres oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/postgresql --set "auth.database=tyk_analytics" -n $NAMESPACE --install
```

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details.

We require the PostgreSQL connection string for Tyk installation. This can be stored in a secret and will be used in installation later.

```bash
POSTGRESQLURL=host=tyk-postgres-postgresql.$NAMESPACE.svc\ port=5432\ user=postgres\ password=$(kubectl get secret --namespace $NAMESPACE tyk-postgres-postgresql -o jsonpath="{.data.postgres-password}" | base64 -d)\ database=tyk_analytics\ sslmode=disable

kubectl create secret generic postgres-secrets  -n $NAMESPACE --from-literal=postgresUrl="$POSTGRESQLURL"
```


{{< note >}}
**Note**

Ensure that you are installing PostgreSQL versions that are supported by Tyk. Please consult the list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}) that are compatible with Tyk.
{{< /note >}}

**4. Install Tyk**
```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/

helm repo update

helm upgrade tyk tyk-helm/tyk-stack -n $NAMESPACE \
  --install \
  --set global.adminUser.useSecretName=admin-secrets \
  --set global.secrets.useSecretName=my-secrets \
  --set global.redis.addrs="{tyk-redis-master.$NAMESPACE.svc:6379}" \
  --set global.redis.passSecret.name=tyk-redis \
  --set global.redis.passSecret.keyName=redis-password \
  --set global.postgres.connectionStringSecret.name=postgres-secrets \
  --set global.postgres.connectionStringSecret.keyName=postgresUrl
```

**5. Done!**
Now Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

Keep reading to learn about other configuration options included in the Helm Chart.

{{< tab_end >}}
{{< tab_start "Quick Start with MongoDB" >}}

The following quick start guide explains how to use the Tyk Stack Helm chart to configure a Dashboard that includes:
- Redis for key storage
- MongoDB for app config
- Tyk Pump to send analytics to MongoDB. It also opens a metrics endpoint where Prometheus (if available) can scrape from.

At the end of this quickstart Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

**1. Setup required credentials**

First, you need to provide Tyk license, admin email and password, and API keys. We recommend to store them in secrets.
```bash
NAMESPACE=tyk

API_SECRET=changeit
ADMIN_KEY=changeit
TYK_LICENSE=changeit
ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@default.com
ADMIN_PASSWORD=changeit

helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update

kubectl create namespace $NAMESPACE

kubectl create secret generic my-secrets -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-literal=APISecret=$API_SECRET \
    --from-literal=AdminSecret=$ADMIN_KEY \
    --from-literal=DashLicense=$TYK_LICENSE

kubectl create secret generic admin-secrets -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-literal=adminUserFirstName=Admin \
    --from-literal=adminUserLastName=User \
    --from-literal=adminUserEmail=$ADMIN_EMAIL \
    --from-literal=adminUserPassword=$ADMIN_PASSWORD
```

**2. Install Redis (if you don't have a Redis instance)**

If you do not already have Redis installed, you may use these charts provided by Bitnami.

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-redis oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/redis -n $NAMESPACE --install --set image.tag=6.2.13
```
Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details and password. The DNS name of your Redis as set by Bitnami is 
`tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc:6379` (Tyk needs the name including the port) 

The Bitnami chart also creates a secret `tyk-redis` which stores the connection password in `redis-password`. We will make use of this secret in installation later.

**3. Install MongoDB (if you don't have a MongoDB instance)**

If you do not already have MongoDB installed, you may use these charts provided by Bitnami.

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-mongo oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/mongodb -n $NAMESPACE --install
```

We require the MongoDB connection string for Tyk installation. You can store it in a secret and provide the secret in installation later.

```bash
MONGOURL=mongodb://root:$(kubectl get secret --namespace $NAMESPACE tyk-mongo-mongodb -o jsonpath="{.data.mongodb-root-password}" | base64 -d)@tyk-mongo-mongodb.$NAMESPACE.svc:27017/tyk_analytics?authSource=admin

kubectl create secret generic mongourl-secrets --from-literal=mongoUrl=$MONGOURL -n $NAMESPACE
```


{{< note >}}
**Note**

Ensure that you are installing MongoDB versions that are supported by Tyk. Please consult the list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}) that are compatible with Tyk.
{{< /note >}}

**4. Install Tyk**
```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/

helm repo update

helm upgrade tyk tyk-helm/tyk-stack -n $NAMESPACE \
  --install \
  --set global.adminUser.useSecretName=admin-secrets \
  --set global.secrets.useSecretName=my-secrets \
  --set global.redis.addrs="{tyk-redis-master.$NAMESPACE.svc:6379}" \
  --set global.redis.passSecret.name=tyk-redis \
  --set global.redis.passSecret.keyName=redis-password \
  --set global.mongo.driver=mongo-go \
  --set global.mongo.connectionURLSecret.name=mongourl-secrets \
  --set global.mongo.connectionURLSecret.keyName=mongoUrl \
  --set global.storageType=mongo \
  --set tyk-pump.pump.backend='{prometheus,mongo}' 
```

**5. Done!**
Now Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

Keep reading to learn about other configuration options included in the Helm Chart.

{{< tab_end >}}
{{< tabs_end >}}

<hr/>

## Tyk Charts Installations

### Installing The Chart

To install the chart from Helm repository in namespace `tyk` with the release name `tyk-stack`:
```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-stack > values.yaml
```
For further documentation relating to *helm* command usage, please refer to the [helm repo](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/).

At a minimum, modify values.yaml for the following settings:
1. [Set Redis connection details](#set-redis-connection-details-required)
2. [Set Mongo or PostgresSQL connection details](#set-mongo-or-postgressql-connection-details-required)
3. [Dashboard License](#tyk-dashboard-license-required)

If you would like to use Enterprise Developer Portal, additional license is required:

4. [Enterprise Developer Portal License](#tyk-developer-enterprise-portal-license-required)

Then just run:
```bash
helm install tyk-stack tyk-helm/tyk-stack -n tyk --create-namespace -f values.yaml
```

### Uninstalling The Chart

```bash
helm uninstall tyk-stack -n tyk
```
This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

### Upgrading Chart

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-stack tyk-helm/tyk-stack -n tyk -f values.yaml
```

_Note: Migrating from tyk-pro chart_

If you were using `tyk-pro` chart for existing release, you cannot upgrade directly. Please modify the values.yaml base on your requirements and install using the new `tyk-stack` chart.

<hr/>

## Configuration

To get all configurable options with detailed comments:

```bash
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-stack > values.yaml
```

You can update any value in your local `values.yaml` file and use `-f [filename]` flag to override default values during installation. 
Alternatively, you can use `--set` flag to set it in Tyk installation. See [Using Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/) for examples.

### Set Redis Connection Details (Required)

Tyk uses Redis for distributed rate-limiting and token storage. You may set `global.redis.addr` and `global.redis.pass` with redis connection 
string and password respectively.

If you do not already have Redis installed, you may use these charts provided by Bitnami

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm install tyk-redis bitnami/redis -n tyk --create-namespace --set image.tag=6.2.13
```

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details and password. The DNS name of your Redis as set by Bitnami is 
`tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc:6379` (Tyk needs the name including the port) 

### Set Mongo or PostgresSQL Connection Details (Required)
If you have already installed MongoDB or PostgreSQL, you can set the connection details in `global.mongo` and `global.postgres` section of values file respectively.

If not, you can use these rather excellent charts provided by Bitnami to install MongoDB or PostgreSQL:

**Mongo Installation**

```bash
helm install tyk-mongo bitnami/mongodb --version {HELM_CHART_VERSION} --set "replicaSet.enabled=true" -n tyk
```

**PostgresSQL Installation**
```bash
helm install tyk-postgres bitnami/postgresql --set "auth.database=tyk_analytics" -n tyk
```

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details.

>NOTE: Please make sure you are installing MongoDB or PostgreSQL versions that are supported by Tyk. Please refer to Tyk docs to get list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}).

### Protect Confidential Fields with Kubernetes Secrets

In the `values.yaml` file, some fields are considered confidential, such as `APISecret`, connection strings, etc.
Declaring values for such fields as plain text might not be desired for all use cases. Instead, for certain fields,
Kubernetes secrets can be referenced, and the chart will 
[define container environment variables using Secret data](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/distribute-credentials-secure/#define-container-environment-variables-using-secret-data).

This section describes how to use Kubernetes secrets to declare confidential fields.

#### Tyk Dashboard Admin

If Tyk Dashboard bootstrapping is enabled, Tyk Dashboard admin user will be created according to the `global.adminUser` field.

All admin credentials can also be set through Kubernetes secret.

> [!NOTE]
> Once `global.adminUser.useSecretName` is declared, it takes precedence over `global.adminUser.firstName`, 
> `global.adminUser.lastName`, `global.adminUser.email` and `global.adminUser.password`.

> [!WARNING]
> If `global.adminUser.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned below to the secret.

##### Admin First Name

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.firstName` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserFirstName` key
in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.


##### Admin Last Name

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.lastName` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserLastName` key
in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.

##### Admin Email

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.email` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserEmail` key
in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.


##### Admin Password

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.password` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserPassword` key
in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.

#### APISecret

The `global.secrets.APISecret` field configures a [header value]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#secret" >}}) used in every interaction with Tyk Gateway API.

It can be configured via `global.secrets.APISecret` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `APISecret` key
in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.secrets.useSecretName`.

```yaml
global:
    secrets:
        APISecret: CHANGEME
        useSecretName: "mysecret" # where mysecret includes `APISecret` key with the desired value.
```

#### AdminSecret

The `global.secrets.AdminSecret` field sets a [secret]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/configuration#admin_secret" >}}) for Admin API.

It can be configured via `global.secrets.AdminSecret` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `AdminSecret` 
key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.secrets.useSecretName`.

```yaml
global:
    secrets:
        useSecretName: "mysecret" # where mysecret includes `useSecretName` key with the desired value.
```

> [!NOTE]
> Once `global.secrets.useSecretName` is declared, it takes precedence over `global.secrets.APISecret` and `global.secrets.AdminSecret`.

#### Dashboard License

In order to refer Tyk Dashboard license through Kubernetes secret, please use `global.secrets.useSecretName`, where 
the secret should contain a key called `DashLicense`.

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal License

In order to refer Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal license through Kubernetes secret, please use 
`tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `DevPortalLicense`.

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal Admin Password

In order to refer Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal's admin password through Kubernetes secret, 
please use `global.adminUser.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `adminUserPassword`.

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal Storage Connection String

In order to refer Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal connection string to the selected database through Kubernetes secret,
please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called 
`DevPortalStorageConnectionString`.

> [!WARNING]
> If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret. 

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal AWS S3 Access Key ID

In order to refer Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal AWS S3 Access Key ID through Kubernetes secret,
please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called 
`DevPortalAwsAccessKeyId`.

> [!WARNING]
> If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret.

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal AWS S3 Secret Access Key

In order to refer Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal connection string to the selected database through Kubernetes secret,
please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called 
`DevPortalAwsSecretAccessKey`.

> [!WARNING]
> If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret.

#### Redis Password

Redis password can also be provided via a secret. Store Redis password in Kubernetes secret and refer to this secret
via `global.redis.passSecret.name` and `global.redis.passSecret.keyName` field, as follows:

```yaml
global:  
  redis:
     passSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "redisPassKey"
```

#### MongoDB or Postgres connection strings

Storage connection strings can also be provided via a secret. Store the connection string in Kubernetes secret and 
refer to this secret via `global.{mongo,postgres}.connectionURLSecret.name` and `global.{mongo,postgres}.connectionURLSecret.keyName` field, 
as follows:

- MongoDB:
```yaml
global:  
  mongo:
    connectionURLSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "redisPassKey"
```

- Postgres:
```yaml
global:
  postgres:
    connectionURLSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "redisPassKey"
```

### Gateway Configurations

Configure below inside `tyk-gateway` section.

#### Update Tyk Gateway Version
Set version of gateway at `tyk-gateway.gateway.image.tag`. You can find the list of version tags available from [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/tykio). Please check [Tyk Release notes]({{<ref "/release-notes">}}) carefully while upgrading or downgrading.

#### Enabling TLS

*Enable TLS*

We have provided an easy way to enable TLS via the `global.tls.gateway` flag. Setting this value to true will
automatically enable TLS using the certificate provided under tyk-gateway/certs/.

*Configure TLS secret*

If you want to use your own key/cert pair, please follow the following steps:
1. Create a TLS secret using your cert and key pair.
2. Set `global.tls.gateway` to true.
3. Set `tyk-gateway.gateway.tls.useDefaultTykCertificate` to false.
4. Set `tyk-gateway.gateway.tls.secretName` to the name of the newly created secret.

*Add Custom Certificates*

To add your custom Certificate Authority(CA) to your containers, you can mount your CA certificate directly into /etc/ssl/certs folder.

```yaml
   extraVolumes: 
     - name: self-signed-ca
       secret:
         secretName: self-signed-ca-secret
   extraVolumeMounts: 
     - name: self-signed-ca
       mountPath: "/etc/ssl/certs/myCA.pem"
       subPath: myCA.pem
```

#### Enabling gateway autoscaling
You can enable autoscaling of the gateway by `--set tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.enabled=true`. By default, it will enable `Horizontal Pod Autoscaler` resource with target average CPU utilisation at 60%, scaling between 1 and 3 instances. To customize those values you can modify below section of `values.yaml`:

```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    autoscaling:
      enabled: true
      minReplicas: 3
      maxReplicas: 30
```

Built-in rules include `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.averageCpuUtilization` for CPU utilization (set by default at 60%) and `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.averageMemoryUtilization` for memory (disabled by default). In addition to that you can define rules for custom metrics using `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.autoscalingTemplate` list:

```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    autoscaling:
      autoscalingTemplate:
        - type: Pods
          pods:
            metric:
              name: nginx_ingress_controller_nginx_process_requests_total
            target:
              type: AverageValue
              averageValue: 10000m
```

#### Accessing Gateway

*Service port*

Default service port of gateway is 8080. You can change this at `global.servicePorts.gateway`.

*Ingress*

An Ingress resource is created if `tyk-gateway.gateway.ingress.enabled` is set to true.

```yaml
    ingress:
      # if enabled, creates an ingress resource for the gateway
      enabled: true

      # specify ingress controller class name
      className: ""

      # annotations for ingress
      annotations: {}

      # ingress rules
      hosts:
        - host: tyk-gw.local
          paths:
            - path: /
              pathType: ImplementationSpecific

      # tls configuration for ingress
      #  - secretName: chart-example-tls
      #    hosts:
      #      - chart-example.local
      tls: []
```

*Control Port*

Set `tyk-gateway.gateway.control.enabled` to true will allow you to run the [Gateway API]({{<ref "/tyk-gateway-api">}}) on a separate port and protect it behind a firewall if needed.

#### Sharding

Configure the gateways to load APIs with specific tags only by enabling `tyk-gateway.gateway.sharding.enabled`, and set `tags` to comma separated lists of matching tags.

```yaml
    # Sharding gateway allows you to selectively load APIs to specific gateways.
    # If enabled make sure you have at least one gateway that is not sharded.
    # Also be sure to match API segmentation tags with the tags selected below.
    sharding:
      enabled: true
      tags: "edge,dc1,product"
```

#### Deploy additional gateway groups

`tyk-stack` chart manages one Gateway Deployment in the same namespace as Tyk Dashboard. You can flexibly deploy additional gateways using `tyk-gateway` component chart. With gateway sharding, it is useful for:
- Deploy Gateways in different networks,
- Deploy Gateways with different resources and autoscaling parameters,
- Allow different teams to manage their own Gateway instances in their own namespace.

Here is an example configuration for `tyk-gateway` `values.yaml`.
```yaml
global:
  redis:
    addrs:
      - tyk-redis-master.tyk-stack.svc:6379       # New Gateway groups should connect to the same Redis
    pass: "xxxxxxx"

gateway:
  # If this option is set to true, it will enable polling the Tyk Dashboard service for API definitions
  useDashboardAppConfig:
    enabled: true
      # Set it to the URL to your Dashboard instance (or a load balanced instance)
      # The URL needs to be formatted as: http://dashboard_host:port
      # It is used to set TYK_GW_DBAPPCONFOPTIONS_CONNECTIONSTRING
      dashboardConnectionString: "http://dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard.tyk-stack.svc:3000"

      # This option is required if Policy source is set to Tyk Dashboard (`service`).
      # Set this to the URL of your Tyk Dashboard installation.
      # The URL needs to be formatted as: http://dashboard_host:port.
      # It is used to set TYK_GW_POLICIES_POLICYCONNECTIONSTRING
      policyConnectionString: "http://dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard.tyk-stack.svc:3000"

  ...

  # Sharding gateway allows you to selectively load APIs to specific gateways.
  # If enabled make sure you have at least one gateway that is not sharded.
  # Also be sure to match API segmentation tags with the tags selected below.
  sharding:
    enabled: true
    tags: "gw-dmz"

  ...

  # analyticsEnabled property is used to enable/disable analytics.
  # If set to empty or nil, analytics will be enabled/disabled based on `global.components.pump`.
  analyticsEnabled: "true"

  # used to decide whether to send the results back directly to Tyk without a hybrid pump
  # if you want to send analytics to control plane instead of pump, change analyticsConfigType to "rpc"
  analyticsConfigType: ""
```

Run the following command to deploy additional Gateways in namespace `another-namespace`.
```bash
helm install another-gateway tyk-helm/tyk-gateway --namespace another-namespace -f values.yaml
```

#### OpenTelemetry
To enable OpenTelemetry for Gateway set `gateway.opentelemetry.enabled` flag to true. It is disabled by default.

You can also configure connection settings for it's exporter. By default `grpc` exporter is enabled on `localhost:4317` endpoint.

 To enable TLS settings for the exporter, you can set `gateway.opentelemetry.tls.enabled` to true. 

### Pump Configurations

To enable Pump, set `global.components.pump` to true, and configure below inside `tyk-pump` section.

<!-- BEGIN import from pump doc -->

| Pump                      | Configuration                                                                                              |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| 
| Prometheus Pump (Default) | Add the value `prometheus` to the `tyk-pump.pump.backend` entry, and add connection details for Prometheus under `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump`. |
| Mongo Pump                | Add `mongo` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                               |
| Mongo Selective Pump      | Add `mongo-selective` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                     |
| Mongo Aggregate Pump      | Add `mongo-aggregate` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                     |
| Postgres Pump             | Add `postgres` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for postgres under `global.postgres`.                                      |
| Postgres Aggregate Pump   | Add `postgres-aggregate` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for postgres under `global.postgres`.                            |
| Uptime Pump               | Set `tyk-pump.pump.uptimePumpBackend` to `mongo` or `postgres` or `""`                                                                           |
| Other Pumps               | Add the required environment variables in `tyk-pump.pump.extraEnvs`                                                                              |


{{< note success >}}
**Note**

For additional information on Tyk Pump configurations, refer to the 
[Setup Dashboard Analytics]({{<ref "tyk-pump/tyk-pump-configuration/tyk-pump-dashboard-config">}}) documentation.

To explore the list of supported backends for Tyk Pump, please visit [Pump Backends]({{<ref "tyk-stack/tyk-pump/other-data-stores">}}).
{{< /note >}}

#### Prometheus Pump
Add `prometheus` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend`, and add connection details for Prometheus under `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump`. 

We also support monitoring using Prometheus Operator. All you have to do is set `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump.prometheusOperator.enabled` to true.

This will create a _PodMonitor_ resource for your Pump instance.

```yaml
    # prometheusPump configures Tyk Pump to expose Prometheus metrics.
    # Please add "prometheus" to .Values.pump.backend in order to enable Prometheus Pump.
    prometheusPump:
      # host represents the host without port, where Tyk Pump serve the metrics for Prometheus.
      host: ""
      # port represents the port where Tyk Pump serve the metrics for Prometheus.
      port: 9090
      # path represents the path to the Prometheus collection. For example /metrics.
      path: /metrics
      # customMetrics allows defining custom Prometheus metrics for Tyk Pump.
      # It accepts a string that represents a JSON object. For instance,
      #
      # customMetrics: '[{"name":"tyk_http_requests_total","description":"Total of API requests","metric_type":"counter","labels":["response_code","api_name","method","api_key","alias","path"]},          {              "name":"tyk_http_latency",              "description":"Latency of API requests",              "metric_type":"histogram",              "labels":["type","response_code","api_name","method","api_key","alias","path"]          }]'
      customMetrics: ""
      # If you are using prometheus Operator, set the fields in the section below.
      prometheusOperator:
        # enabled determines whether the Prometheus Operator is in use or not. By default,
        # it is disabled.
        # Tyk Pump can be monitored with PodMonitor Custom Resource of Prometheus Operator.
        # If enabled, PodMonitor resource is created based on .Values.pump.prometheusPump.prometheusOperator.podMonitorSelector
        # for Tyk Pump.
        enabled: false
        # podMonitorSelector represents a podMonitorSelector of your Prometheus resource. So that
        # your Prometheus resource can select PodMonitor objects based on selector defined here.
        # Please set this field to the podMonitorSelector field of your monitoring.coreos.com/v1
        # Prometheus resource's spec.
        #
        # You can check the podMonitorSelector via:
        #   kubectl describe prometheuses.monitoring.coreos.com <PROMETHEUS_POD>
        podMonitorSelector:
          release: prometheus-stack
```

#### Mongo pump
If you are using the MongoDB pumps in the tyk-oss installation you will require MongoDB installed for that as well.

To install Mongo you can use these rather excellent charts provided by Bitnami:

```bash
helm install tyk-mongo bitnami/mongodb --version {HELM_CHART_VERSION} --set "replicaSet.enabled=true" -n tyk
```

(follow notes from the installation output to get connection details and update them in `values.yaml` file)

NOTE: [Here is](https://tyk.io/docs/planning-for-production/database-settings/) list of supported MongoDB versions. Please make sure you are installing mongo helm chart that matches these versions.

*Important Note regarding MongoDB:* This helm chart enables the PodDisruptionBudget for MongoDB with an arbiter replica-count of 1. If you intend to perform system maintenance on the node where the MongoDB pod is running and this maintenance requires for the node to be drained, this action will be prevented due the replica count being 1. Increase the replica count in the helm chart deployment to a minimum of 2 to remedy this issue.

```yaml
 # Set mongo connection details if you want to configure mongo pump.     
 mongo:
    # The mongoURL value will allow you to set your MongoDB address.
    # Default value: mongodb://mongo.{{ .Release.Namespace }}.svc.cluster.local:27017/tyk_analytics
    # mongoURL: mongodb://mongo.tyk.svc.cluster.local:27017/tyk_analytics
    # If your MongoDB has a password you can add the username and password to the url
    # mongoURL: mongodb://root:pass@tyk-mongo-mongodb.tyk.svc.cluster.local:27017/tyk_analytics?authSource=admin
    mongoURL: <MongoDB address>

    # Enables SSL for MongoDB connection. MongoDB instance will have to support that.
    # Default value: false
    # useSSL: false
```

#### SQL pump
If you are using the SQL pumps in the tyk-oss installation you will require PostgreSQL installed for that as well.

To install PostgreSQL you can use these rather excellent charts provided by Bitnami:

```bash
helm install tyk-postgres bitnami/postgresql --set "auth.database=tyk_analytics" -n tyk
```

(follow notes from the installation output to get connection details and update them in `values.yaml` file)

```yaml
  # Postgres connection string parameters.
  postgres:
    # host corresponds to the host name of postgres
    host: tyk-postgres-postgresql.tyk.svc
    # port corresponds to the port of postgres
    port: 5432
    # user corresponds to the user of postgres
    user: postgres
    # password corresponds to the password of the given postgres user in selected database
    password:
    # database corresponds to the database to be used in postgres
    database: tyk_analytics
    # sslmode corresponds to if postgres runs in sslmode (https)
    sslmode: disable
    # Connection string can also be set using a secret. Provide the name of the secret and key below.
    # connectionStringSecret:
    #   name: ""
    #   keyName: ""
```

#### Uptime Pump
Uptime Pump can be configured by setting `pump.uptimePumpBackend` in values.yaml file. It support following values
1. mongo: Used to set mongo pump for uptime analytics. Mongo Pump should be enabled.
2. postgres: Used to set postgres pump for uptime analytics. Postgres Pump should be enabled.
3. empty: Used to disable uptime analytics.

```yaml
    # uptimePumpBackend configures uptime Tyk Pump. ["", "mongo", "postgres"].
    # Set it to "" for disabling uptime Tyk Pump. By default, uptime pump is disabled.
    uptimePumpBackend: ""
```

#### Other Pumps
To setup other backends for pump, refer to this [document](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump/blob/master/README.md#pumps--back-ends-supported) and add the required environment variables in `pump.extraEnvs`


### Tyk Dashboard

#### Tyk Dashboard License (Required)

Tyk Dashboard License is required. It can be set up in `global.license.dashboard` or through secret `global.secrets.useSecretName`. The secret should contain a key called DashLicense.

```yaml
global:
  license:
    # The license key needed by Tyk Dashboard to work.
    #
    # NOTE: If you do not want to store license as a plain text in the file, you can use a Kubernetes secret
    # that stores the dashboard license. Please see `.global.secrets.useSecretName`.
    dashboard: ""
```

### Tyk Bootstrap

To enable bootstrapping, set `global.components.bootstrap` to `true`. It would run [tyk-k8s-bootstrap](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-bootstrap) to bootstrap `tyk-stack` and to create Kubernetes secrets that can be utilized in Tyk Operator and Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal.

#### Bootstrapped Environments

If Tyk is already bootstrapped, the application will bypass the creation of the Tyk Organization and Admin User, proceeding directly with the creation of Kubernetes Secrets.

Given that the Kubernetes Secrets require values for `TYK_AUTH` and `TYK_ORG`, it is essential to provide these values through the respective environment variables, called `TYK_K8SBOOTSTRAP_TYK_ADMIN_AUTH` for `TYK_AUTH` and `TYK_K8SBOOTSTRAP_TYK_ORG_ID` for `TYK_ORG`.

Ensure that these environment variables are set appropriately to `postInstall` hook for bootstrapped environments.

### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal Configurations

To enable Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal, set `global.components.devPortal` to true, and configure below inside `tyk-dev-portal` section.

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal License (Required)

Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal License is required. It can be set up in `tyk-dev-portal.license` or through secret `global.secrets.useSecretName`. The secret should contain a key called `DevPortalLicense`.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  # Tyk Developer Portal license.
  license: ""
```

#### Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal Database

By default, Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal use `sqlite3` to store portal metadata. If you want to use other SQL Database, please modify the section below.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  database:
    # This selects the SQL dialect to be used
    # The supported values are mysql, postgres and sqlite3
    dialect: "sqlite3"
    connectionString: "db/portal.db"
    enableLogs: false
    maxRetries: 3
    retryDelay: 5000
```

#### Storage Settings

Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal supports different storage options for storing the portal's CMS assets such as images, theme files and Open API Specification files. Please see the [Enterprise Developer Portal Storage settings]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-enterprise-developer-portal/deploy/configuration#portal-settings">}}) page for all the available options. 

If you use the file system as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `fs`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.storage.persistence` to mount an existing persistent volume to Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal.

If you use [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `s3`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.storage.s3` section with credentials to access AWS S3 bucket.

If you use database as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `db`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.database` section with database connection details.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  # Sensitive configuration of Portal could be set using k8s secret
  # You can set following fields:
  # - DevPortalLicense - Sets LicenseKey for Developer Portal
  # - DevPortalStorageConnectionString - Sets connectionString for Developer Portal
  # - DevPortalAwsAccessKeyId - Sets AWS S3 Access Key ID
  # - DevPortalAwsSecretAccessKey - Sets AWS S3 Secret Access Key
  useSecretName: ""
  # The hostname to bind the Developer Portal to.
  hostName: tyk-dev-portal.org
  # Developer Portal license.
  license: ""
  # Developer portal can be deployed as StatefulSet or as Deployment
  kind: StatefulSet
  storage:
    # User can set the storage type for portal.
    # Supported types: fs, s3, db
    type: "db"
    # Configuration values for using s3 as storage for Tyk Developer Portal
    # In case you want to provide the key ID and access key via secrets please
    # refer to the existing secret inside the helm chart or the
    # .Values.useSecretName field
    s3:
      awsAccessKeyid: your-access-key
      awsSecretAccessKey: your-secret-key
      region: sa-east-1
      endpoint: https://s3.sa-east-1.amazonaws.com
      bucket: your-portal-bucket
      acl: private
      presign_urls: true
    persistence:
      mountExistingPVC: ""
      storageClass: ""
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      size: 8Gi
      annotations: {}
      labels: {}
      selector: {}
  database:
    # This selects the SQL dialect to be used
    # The supported values are mysql, postgres and sqlite3
    dialect: "sqlite3"
    connectionString: "db/portal.db"
    enableLogs: false
    maxRetries: 3
    retryDelay: 5000
```

#### Other Configurations

Other [Enterprise Developer Portal configurations]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-enterprise-developer-portal/deploy/configuration">}}) can be set by using environment variables with `extraEnvs` fields, e.g.:

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  extraEnvs:
  - name: PORTAL_LOG_LEVEL
    value: debug
```
