---
date: 2017-03-24T16:56:58Z
title: Single Sign-On integration
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Integration Options"
weight: 0
aliases:
  - /integrate/3rd-party-identity-providers/
---

Tyk supports integration with 3rd Party Identity Providers (IdPs) for Single Sign-On (SSO) using several different approaches, providing complete flexibility to work within your existing software stack.

This makes use of the [Tyk Identity Broker]({{< ref "tyk-identity-broker" >}}) (TIB) which provides a service-level component that enables delegated identities to be authorised and provide authenticated access to various Tyk components such as the Tyk Dashboard, the [Tyk Classic Developer Portal]({{< ref "tyk-developer-portal/tyk-portal-classic" >}}) and Tyk Gateway API.

The following methods are supported:
- [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](#sso-using-open-id-connect)
- [Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)](#sso-using-saml)
- [Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/integrate/3rd-party-identity-providers/ldap" >}})
- Integration with [Social Providers]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/integrate/3rd-party-identity-providers/social" >}})
- Integration with [Custom Proxy]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/integrate/3rd-party-identity-providers/custom" >}})
- [Logging into an APP using Google+]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/integrate/3rd-party-identity-providers/social/app-login-with-gplus" >}})

Check out [this section]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/integrate" >}}) for worked examples of integrations with popular 3rd Party IdPs.

## SSO using Open ID Connect

To configure your Tyk Dashboard to work with a 3rd Party IdP all you need to do is:

1. Access the **Identity Manager** under System Management in the Tyk Dashboard
2. Create a profile for your preferred IdP
3. Get the `client_id` + `secret` that are defined on your IdP
4. Set the `Callback URL` generated by Tyk on your IdP
5. Provide your SSO profile in Tyk with the `Discover URL (well known endpoint)`
6. Visit the Login URL after saving your profile to initialize the login
7. More documentation of the flow can be found on our [GitHub TIB repo README](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-identity-broker)

## SSO using SAML

SAML authentication is a way for a service provider, such as the Tyk Dashboard or Tyk Classic Developer Portal, to assert the Identity of a User via a third party.

Tyk Identity Broker can act as the go-between for the Tyk Dashboard and Tyk Classic Developer Portal and a third party identity provider. Tyk Identity broker can also interpret and provide information about the user who is logging in such as Name, Email and group or role metadata for enforcing role based access control in the Tyk Dashboard.

The provider config for SAML has the following values that can be configured in a Profile:

`SAMLBaseURL` - The Tyk Identity Broker host that will be used in the metadata document for the Service Provider. This will form part of the metadata URL used as the Entity ID by the IdP. The redirects configured in the IdP must match the expected host and URI configured in the metadata document made available by Tyk Identity Broker.

`FailureRedirect` - Where to redirect failed login requests.

`IDPMetaDataURL` - The metadata URL of your IDP which will provide Tyk Identity Broker with information such as EntityID, Endpoints (Single Sign On Service Endpoint, Single Logout Service Endpoint), its public X.509 cert, NameId Format, Organisation info and Contact info.

This metadata XML can be signed providing a public X.509 cert and the private key.     

`CertLocation`: An X.509 certificate and the private key for signing your requests to the IDP, this should be one single file with the cert and key concatenated. When using internal identity broker, this value should be the id of the certificate uploaded via certificate manager in dashboard, otherwise it should be a path where the certificate is placed.

`ForceAuthentication` - Ignore any session held by the IDP and force re-login every request.

`SAMLEmailClaim` - Key for looking up the email claim in the SAML assertion form the IDP. Defaults to: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`

`SAMLForenameClaim` - Key for looking up the forename claim in the SAML assertion form the IDP. Defaults to: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/forename`

`SAMLSurnameClaim` - Key for looking up the surname claim in the SAML assertion form the IDP. Defaults to: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`

Example profile configuration:

```json
{
    "ActionType": "GenerateOrLoginUserProfile",
    "ID": "saml-sso-login",
    "OrgID": "{YOUR_ORGANISATION_ID}",
    "CustomEmailField": "",
    "IdentityHandlerConfig": {
        "DashboardCredential": "{DASHBOARD_USER_API_KEY}"
    },
    "ProviderConfig": {
        "SAMLBaseURL": "https://{HOST}",
        "FailureRedirect": "http://{DASHBOARD_HOST}:{PORT}/?fail=true",
        "IDPMetaDataURL": "{IDP_METADATA_URL}",
        "CertLocation":"myservice.cert",
        "ForceAuthentication": false,
        "SAMLEmailClaim": "",
        "SAMLForenameClaim": "",
        "SAMLSurnameClaim": ""
    },
    "ProviderName": "SAMLProvider",
    "ReturnURL": "http://{DASHBOARD_URL}:{PORT}/tap",
    "Type": "redirect"
}
```
### Example Video

We have a video that explains how to provide Tyk Dashboard SSO Access via SAML using Microsoft Azure as an IDP and our internal Dashboard TIB.

{{< youtube 4L9aetRrHqI >}}


