---
title: Tyk Control Plane Chart
description: Explains the Tyk Control Plane Chart
tags: ["Tyk Control Plane chart", "Control Plane Chart", "helm charts", "helm", "charts", "kubernetes", "k8s"]
---

The `tyk-control-plane` provides the default deployment of Tyk control plane on a Kubernetes cluster. It will deploy all required Tyk components with the settings provided in the values.yaml file.

## What components are deployed with Tyk Control Plane Chart?

It includes:
- Tyk Gateway, an Open Source Enterprise API Gateway (supporting REST, GraphQL, TCP and gRPC protocols).
- Tyk Dashboard, a license based component that provides a graphical management interface and analytics platform for Tyk.
- Tyk MDCB, a license based component that performs management and synchronisation of distributed clusters of Tyk API Gateways.
- Tyk Pump, an analytics purger that moves the data generated by your Tyk nodes to any back-end.
- Tyk Developer Portal, a full-fledged CMS-like system for API providers to publish, monetize and drive the adoption of APIs.

Learn more about Tyk control plane at [MDCB components]({{<ref "tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-components">}}).

By default, this chart installs the following components as sub-charts on a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) package manager.

| Component                       | Enabled by Default | Flag                        |
|---------------------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------|
| Tyk Gateway                     | true               | n/a                         |
| Tyk Dashboard                   | true               | n/a                         |
| Tyk MDCB                        | true               | n/a                         |
| Tyk Pump                        | false              | global.components.pump      |
| Tyk Enterprise Developer Portal | false              | global.components.devPortal | 
| Tyk Operator                    | false              | global.components.operator  |

To enable or disable each component, change the corresponding enabled flag.

Also, you can set the version of each component through `image.tag`. You could find the list of version tags available from [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/tykio).

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes 1.19+](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/)
- [Helm 3+](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [Redis]({{< ref "tyk-oss/ce-helm-chart#recommended-via-bitnami-chart" >}}) should already be installed or accessible by the gateway and dashboard.
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) or [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) should already be installed or accessible by dashboard. Please consult the list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}) that are compatible with Tyk.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

If you want to enable Tyk Developer Portal, please use PostgreSQL. MongoDB is not supported in Developer Portal.
{{< /note >}}

## Tyk Control Plane Installations
### Installing The Chart

To install the chart from Helm repository in namespace `tyk` with the release name `tyk-control-plane`, issue the following commands:
```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane > values.yaml
```

For further documentation relating to *helm* command usage, please refer to the [helm docs](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/).

At a minimum, modify `values.yaml` for the following settings:
1. [Set Redis connection details](#set-redis-connection-details-required)
2. [Set Mongo or PostgreSQL connection details](#set-mongo-or-postgressql-connection-details-required)
3. [Tyk Dashboard License](#tyk-dashboard-license-required)
4. [Tyk MDCB License](#tyk-mdcb-license-required)
5. If you would like to use Developer Portal, an additional license is required: [Tyk Developer Portal License](#tyk-developer-portal-license-required)

By default, the chart would expose MDCB service as ClusterIP. If you would like to access the control plane from outside the cluster, please change the service type `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.service.type` to NodePort or LoadBalancer.

Then just run:
```bash
helm install tyk-control-plane tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane -n tyk --create-namespace -f values.yaml
```

Follow the installation output to obtain connection details to Tyk MDCB, and use that to configure Tyk Data Planes using [tyk-data-plane]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-data-plane-chart">}}) chart.

### Uninstalling The Chart

```bash
helm uninstall tyk-control-plane -n tyk
```
This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

### Upgrading Chart

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-control-plane tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane -n tyk -f values.yaml
```

## Configuration

To get all configurable options with detailed comments, issue the following command:

```bash
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane > values.yaml
```

You can update any value in your local `values.yaml` file and use `-f [filename]` flag to override default values during installation. 
Alternatively, you can use `--set` flag to set it in Tyk installation. See [Using Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/) for examples.

To configure Tyk components, users can utilize both config files and [environment variables](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/define-environment-variable-container/). Notably, environment variables take precedence over config files. To maintain simplicity and consistency, the Tyk Helm Charts deploy components with an empty config file while setting container environment variables based on user-defined [values](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/values/). This approach ensures seamless integration with Kubernetes practices, allowing for efficient management of configurations. For a comprehensive overview of available configurations, please refer to the [configuration documentation]({{<ref "tyk-environment-variables">}}). 

### Setting Environment Variables
Should any environment variables not be set by the Helm Chart, users can easily add them under the `extraEnvs` section within the charts for further customization. Values set under `extraEnvs` would take precedence over all configurations.

Example of setting extra environment variable to gateway:
```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    extraEnvs:
    - name: TYK_GW_LOGLEVEL
      value: debug
```

An example is listed below for setting extra [environment variable using ConfigMap data](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#define-container-environment-variables-using-configmap-data), using gateway:
```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    extraEnvs:
    - name: CONFIG_USERNAME
      valueFrom:
        configMapKeyRef: 
          name: backend-user
          key: backend-username
```

An example is listed below for setting extra [environment variable using secret data](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/distribute-credentials-secure/#define-container-environment-variables-using-secret-data), using gateway:
```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    extraEnvs:
    - name: SECRET_USERNAME
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef: 
          name: backend-user
          key: backend-username
```

In the above example, an extra environment variable `SECRET_USERNAME` will be added to the Gateway container, with a value of `backend-username` associated with the secret `backend-user`. It is useful if you want to access secret data from [Tyk Gateway configuration file (tyk.conf) or API definitions]({{<ref "tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store#how-to-access-the-externally-stored-data">}}).

### Set Redis Connection Details (Required)

Tyk uses Redis for distributed rate-limiting and token storage. You may use the [Bitnami chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/redis) or Tyk's [simple-redis](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/simple-redis) to install chart for POC purpose.

Set the following values after installing Redis:

| Name | Description | 
|------|-------------|
| `global.redis.addrs` | Redis addresses |
| `global.redis.pass` | Redis password in plain text |
| `global.redis.passSecret.name` | If global.redis.pass is not provided, you can store it in a secret and provide the secret name here |
| `global.redis.passSecret.keyName` | key name to retrieve redis password from the secret |

***Recommended: via *Bitnami* chart***

For Redis you can use these rather excellent charts provided by [Bitnami](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/redis).
Copy the following commands to add it:

```bash
helm upgrade tyk-redis oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/redis -n tyk --create-namespace --install --version 19.0.2
```

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Please make sure you are installing Redis versions that are supported by Tyk. Please refer to Tyk docs to get list of [supported versions]({{< ref "planning-for-production/redis" >}}).
{{< /note >}}

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details and password.

```
  Redis(TM) can be accessed on the following DNS names from within your cluster:

    tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc.cluster.local for read/write operations (port 6379)
    tyk-redis-replicas.tyk.svc.cluster.local for read-only operations (port 6379)

  export REDIS_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace tyk tyk-redis -o jsonpath="{.data.redis-password}" | base64 --decode)
```

The Redis address as set by Bitnami is `tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc.cluster.local:6379`

You can reference the password secret generated by Bitnami chart by  `--set global.redis.passSecret.name=tyk-redis` and `--set global.redis.passSecret.keyName=redis-password`, or just set `global.redis.pass=$REDIS_PASSWORD`

***Evaluation only: via *simple-redis* chart***

Another option for Redis, to get started quickly, is to use our [simple-redis](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/simple-redis) chart.

{{< warning  success >}}
**Warning**

Please note that these provided charts must never be used in production or for anything
but a quick start evaluation only. Use [Bitnami Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/redis) or [Redis Enterprise operator](https://docs.redis.com/latest/kubernetes/deployment/) in any other case.
We provide this chart, so you can quickly deploy *Tyk gateway*, but it is not meant for long term storage of data.

{{< /warning >}}

```bash
helm install redis tyk-helm/simple-redis -n tyk
```

The Tyk Helm Chart can connect to `simple-redis` in the same namespace by default. You do not need to set Redis address and password in `values.yaml`.

### Set Mongo or PostgreSQL Connection Details (Required)
If you have already installed MongoDB or PostgreSQL, you can set the connection details in `global.mongo` and `global.postgres` section of values file respectively.

If not, you can use these rather excellent charts provided by Bitnami to install MongoDB or PostgreSQL:

**Mongo Installation**

```bash
helm install tyk-mongo bitnami/mongodb --set "replicaSet.enabled=true" -n tyk --version 15.1.3
```

Then follow notes from the installation output to get connection details and update them in `values.yaml` file.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Bitnami MongoDB image is not supported on darwin/arm64 architecture. 
{{< /note >}}

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Please make sure you are installing MongoDB versions that are supported by Tyk. Please refer to Tyk docs to get list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}).
{{< /note >}}

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Important Note regarding MongoDB:

This helm chart enables the `PodDisruptionBudget` for MongoDB with an arbiter replica-count of 1. If you intend to perform system maintenance on the node where the MongoDB pod is running and this maintenance requires the node to be drained, then this action will be prevented due to the the replica count being 1.

Increase the replica count in the helm chart deployment to a minimum of 2 to remedy this issue.
{{< /note >}}

Configure `global.mongo.mongoURL` and `global.storageType` as below. You should replace `pass` in the connection string with the MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD you obtain from the installation output notes.

```yaml
global:
  # Set mongo connection details if you want to configure mongo pump.
  mongo:
    # The mongoURL value will allow you to set your MongoDB address.
    # Default value: mongodb://mongo.{{ .Release.Namespace }}.svc:27017/tyk_analytics
    # mongoURL: mongodb://mongo.tyk.svc:27017/tyk_analytics

    # If your MongoDB has a password you can add the username and password to the url
    mongoURL: mongodb://root:pass@tyk-mongo-mongodb.tyk.svc:27017/tyk_analytics?authSource=admin

    # mongo-go driver is supported for Tyk 5.0.2+.
    # We recommend using the mongo-go driver if you are using MongoDB 4.4.x+.
    # For MongoDB versions prior to 4.4, please use the mgo driver.
    # Since Tyk 5.3 the default driver is mongo-go.
    driver: mongo-go

    # Connection URL can also be set using a secret. Provide the name of the secret and key below.
    # connectionURLSecret:
    #   name: ""
    #   keyName: ""

    # Enables SSL for MongoDB connection. MongoDB instance will have to support that.
    # Default value: false
    useSSL: false

  # Choose the storageType for Tyk. [ "mongo", "postgres" ]
  storageType: &globalStorageType mongo
```

**PostgreSQL Installation**
```bash
helm install tyk-postgres bitnami/postgresql --set "auth.database=tyk_analytics" -n tyk --version 12.12.10
```

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Please make sure you are installing PostgreSQL versions that are supported by Tyk. Please refer to Tyk docs to get list of [supported versions]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/database-options" >}}).
{{< /note >}}

```yaml
global:
  # Postgres connection string parameters.
  postgres:
    # host corresponds to the host name of postgres
    host: tyk-postgres-postgresql.tyk.svc
    # port corresponds to the port of postgres
    port: 5432
    # user corresponds to the user of postgres
    user: postgres
    # password corresponds to the password of the given postgres user in selected database
    password:
    # database corresponds to the database to be used in postgres
    database: tyk_analytics
    # sslmode corresponds to if postgres runs in sslmode (https)
    sslmode: disable
    # Connection string can also be set using a secret. Provide the name of the secret and key below.
    # connectionStringSecret:
    #   name: ""
    #   keyName: ""
```

### Protect Confidential Fields with Kubernetes Secrets

In the `values.yaml` file, some fields are considered confidential, such as `APISecret`, connection strings, etc.

Declaring values for such fields as plain text might not be desired. Instead, for certain fields, Kubernetes secrets can be referenced, and the chart will 
[define container environment variables using secret data](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/distribute-credentials-secure/#define-container-environment-variables-using-secret-data).

This section describes how to use Kubernetes secrets to declare confidential fields.

***Tyk Dashboard and Developer Portal Admin***

If Tyk Dashboard bootstrapping is enabled, the admin user will be created according to the `global.adminUser` field.

All admin credentials can also be set through Kubernetes secret.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Once `global.adminUser.useSecretName` is declared, it takes precedence over `global.adminUser.firstName`, 
`global.adminUser.lastName`, `global.adminUser.email` and `global.adminUser.password`.

If `global.adminUser.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned below to the secret.
{{< /note >}}

***Tyk Dashboard Admin First Name***

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.firstName` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserFirstName` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.


***Tyk Dashboard Admin Last Name***

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.lastName` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserLastName` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.

***Tyk Dashboard and Developer Portal Admin Email***

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.email` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserEmail` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.

***Tyk Dashboard and Developer Portal Admin Password***

It can be configured via `global.adminUser.password` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `adminUserPassword` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.adminUser.useSecretName`.

***APISecret***

The `global.secrets.APISecret` field configures a [header value]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#secret" >}}) used in every interaction with Tyk Gateway API.

It can be configured via `global.secrets.APISecret` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `APISecret` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.secrets.useSecretName`.

```yaml
global:
    secrets:
        APISecret: CHANGEME
        useSecretName: "mysecret" # where mysecret includes `APISecret` key with the desired value.
```

***AdminSecret***

The `global.secrets.AdminSecret` field sets a [secret]({{< ref "tyk-dashboard/configuration#admin_secret" >}}) for Admin API.

It can be configured via `global.secrets.AdminSecret` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `AdminSecret` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.secrets.useSecretName`.

```yaml
global:
    secrets:
        useSecretName: "mysecret" # where mysecret includes `AdminSecret` key with the desired value.
```

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Once `global.secrets.useSecretName` is declared, it takes precedence over `global.secrets.APISecret` and `global.secrets.AdminSecret`.
{{< /note >}}

***Dashboard License***

In order to refer to a Tyk Dashboard license through a Kubernetes secret, please use `global.secrets.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `DashLicense`.

***MDCB License***

In order to refer to a Tyk MDCB license through a Kubernetes secret, please use `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `MDCBLicense`.

***MDCB Secret***

In order to set the secret for accessing MDCB secure HTTP endpoints through a Kubernetes secret, please use tyk-`mdcb.mdcb.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `securitySecret`.

***Tyk Developer Portal License***

In order to refer to a Tyk Developer Portal license through a Kubernetes secret, please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `DevPortalLicense`.

***Tyk Developer Portal Admin Password***

In order to refer to a Tyk Developer Portal's admin password through a Kubernetes secret, 
please use `global.adminUser.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `adminUserPassword`.

***Tyk Developer Portal Storage Connection String***

In order to refer to a Tyk Developer Portal connection string to the selected database through a Kubernetes secret, please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `DevPortalStorageConnectionString`.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret. 
{{< /note >}}

***Tyk Developer Portal AWS S3 Access Key ID***

In order to refer to a Tyk Developer Portal AWS S3 Access Key ID through a Kubernetes secret, please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called `DevPortalAwsAccessKeyId`.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret.
{{< /note >}}

***Tyk Developer Portal AWS S3 Secret Access Key***

In order to refer Tyk Developer Portal connection string to the selected database through Kubernetes secret,
please use `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName`, where the secret should contain a key called 
`DevPortalAwsSecretAccessKey`.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

If `tyk-dev-portal.useSecretName` is in use, please add all keys mentioned to the secret.
{{< /note >}}

***Redis Password***

The Redis password can also be provided via a secret. Store the Redis password in Kubernetes secret and refer to this secret via `global.redis.passSecret.name` and `global.redis.passSecret.keyName` field, as follows:

```yaml
global:  
  redis:
     passSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "redisPassKey"
```

***MongoDB or Postgres connection strings***

Storage connection strings can also be provided via a secret. 

For MongoDB, suppose you have a secret named `yourSecret` and you have the mongo connection URL stored in key `mongoConnectionURLkey`. Store the connection string in Kubernetes secret and refer to this secret via `global.mongo.connectionURLSecret.name` and `global.mongo.connectionURLSecret.keyName` field, as follows:

- MongoDB:
```yaml
global:  
  mongo:
    connectionURLSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "mongoConnectionURLkey"
```

For Postgres, suppose you have a secret named `yourSecret` and you have the postgres connection string stored in key `postgreConnectionURLkey`. Store the connection string in Kubernetes secret and refer to this secret via `global.postgres.connectionStringSecret.name` and `global.postgres.connectionStringSecret.keyName` field, as follows:

- Postgres:
```yaml
global:
  postgres:
    connectionStringSecret:
       name: "yourSecret"
       keyName: "postgreConnectionURLkey"
```

**_Tyk Operator License_**

It can be configured via `global.license.operator` as a plain text or Kubernetes secret which includes `OperatorLicense` key in it. Then, this secret must be referenced via `global.secrets.useSecretName`.

### Gateway Configurations

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

In Tyk control plane, Tyk Gateway acts as a management gateway that is used for creation of keys and certificates. It does not service API requests. It is important to ensure there is no public access to it and it must not be sharded (tagged) as it “belongs” to the whole Tyk installation.
{{< /note >}}

Configure the following details below, inside the `tyk-gateway` section.

#### Update Tyk Gateway Version
Set version of gateway at `tyk-gateway.gateway.image.tag`. You can find the list of version tags available from [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags). Please check [Tyk Release notes]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/release-notes/overview">}}) carefully while upgrading or downgrading.

#### Enabling TLS

*Enable TLS*

We have provided an easy way to enable TLS via the `global.tls.gateway` flag. Setting this value to true will automatically enable TLS using the certificate provided under tyk-gateway/certs/.

*Configure TLS secret*

If you want to use your own key/cert pair, please perform the following steps:
1. Create a TLS secret using your cert and key pair.
2. Set `global.tls.gateway` to true.
3. Set `tyk-gateway.gateway.tls.useDefaultTykCertificate` to false.
4. Set `tyk-gateway.gateway.tls.secretName` to the name of the newly created secret.

*Add Custom Certificates*

To add your custom Certificate Authority(CA) to your containers, you can mount your CA certificate directly into /etc/ssl/certs folder.

```yaml
   extraVolumes: 
     - name: self-signed-ca
       secret:
         secretName: self-signed-ca-secret
   extraVolumeMounts: 
     - name: self-signed-ca
       mountPath: "/etc/ssl/certs/myCA.pem"
       subPath: myCA.pem
```

#### Enabling gateway autoscaling
You can enable autoscaling of the gateway by `--set tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.enabled=true`. By default, it will enable the `Horizontal Pod Autoscaler` resource with target average CPU utilization at 60%, scaling between 1 and 3 instances. To customize those values you can modify the `tyk-gateway` section of `values.yaml` as shown below:

```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    autoscaling:
      enabled: true
      minReplicas: 3
      maxReplicas: 30
```

Built-in rules include `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.averageCpuUtilization` for CPU utilization (set by default at 60%) and `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.averageMemoryUtilization` for memory (disabled by default). In addition to that you can define rules for custom metrics using `tyk-gateway.gateway.autoscaling.autoscalingTemplate` list:

```yaml
tyk-gateway:
  gateway:
    autoscaling:
      autoscalingTemplate:
        - type: Pods
          pods:
            metric:
              name: nginx_ingress_controller_nginx_process_requests_total
            target:
              type: AverageValue
              averageValue: 10000m
```

### Pump Configurations

To enable Pump, set `global.components.pump` to true and configure the following parameters included below inside the `tyk-pump` section.

<!-- BEGIN import from pump doc -->

| Pump                      | Configuration                                                                                              |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| 
| Prometheus Pump (Default) | Add the value `prometheus` to the `tyk-pump.pump.backend` entry and add connection details for Prometheus under `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump`. |
| Mongo Pump                | Add `mongo` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                               |
| Mongo Selective Pump      | Add `mongo-selective` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                     |
| Mongo Aggregate Pump      | Add `mongo-aggregate` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`.                                     |
| Postgres Pump             | Add `postgres` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for postgres under `global.postgres`.                                      |
| Postgres Aggregate Pump   | Add `postgres-aggregate` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for postgres under `global.postgres`.                            |
| Uptime Pump               | Set `tyk-pump.pump.uptimePumpBackend` to `mongo` or `postgres` or `""`                                                                           |
| Other Pumps               | Add the required environment variables in `tyk-pump.pump.extraEnvs`                                                                              |


{{< note success >}}
**Note**

For additional information on Tyk Pump configurations, refer to the 
[Setup Dashboard Analytics]({{<ref "tyk-pump/tyk-pump-configuration/tyk-pump-dashboard-config">}}) documentation.

To explore the list of supported backends for Tyk Pump, please visit [Pump Backends]({{<ref "tyk-stack/tyk-pump/other-data-stores">}}).
{{< /note >}}

#### Prometheus Pump
Add `prometheus` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for Prometheus under `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump`. 

We also support monitoring using Prometheus Operator. All you have to do is set `tyk-pump.pump.prometheusPump.prometheusOperator.enabled` to true.

This will create a _PodMonitor_ resource for your Pump instance.

```yaml
    # prometheusPump configures Tyk Pump to expose Prometheus metrics.
    # Please add "prometheus" to .Values.pump.backend in order to enable Prometheus Pump.
    prometheusPump:
      # host represents the host without port, where Tyk Pump serve the metrics for Prometheus.
      host: ""
      # port represents the port where Tyk Pump serve the metrics for Prometheus.
      port: 9090
      # path represents the path to the Prometheus collection. For example /metrics.
      path: /metrics
      # customMetrics allows defining custom Prometheus metrics for Tyk Pump.
      # It accepts a string that represents a JSON object. For instance,
      #
      # customMetrics: '[{"name":"tyk_http_requests_total","description":"Total of API requests","metric_type":"counter","labels":["response_code","api_name","method","api_key","alias","path"]},          {              "name":"tyk_http_latency",              "description":"Latency of API requests",              "metric_type":"histogram",              "labels":["type","response_code","api_name","method","api_key","alias","path"]          }]'
      customMetrics: ""
      # If you are using prometheus Operator, set the fields in the section below.
      prometheusOperator:
        # enabled determines whether the Prometheus Operator is in use or not. By default,
        # it is disabled.
        # Tyk Pump can be monitored with PodMonitor Custom Resource of Prometheus Operator.
        # If enabled, PodMonitor resource is created based on .Values.pump.prometheusPump.prometheusOperator.podMonitorSelector
        # for Tyk Pump.
        enabled: false
        # podMonitorSelector represents a podMonitorSelector of your Prometheus resource. So that
        # your Prometheus resource can select PodMonitor objects based on selector defined here.
        # Please set this field to the podMonitorSelector field of your monitoring.coreos.com/v1
        # Prometheus resource's spec.
        #
        # You can check the podMonitorSelector via:
        #   kubectl describe prometheuses.monitoring.coreos.com <PROMETHEUS_POD>
        podMonitorSelector:
          release: prometheus-stack
```

#### Mongo pump
To enable Mongo pump, add `mongo` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for mongo under `global.mongo`. See [Mongo Installation](#set-mongo-or-postgressql-connection-details-required) section above.

By default, it will enable Mongo Aggregate, Mongo Graph Pump and Mongo Selective Pump.


#### SQL Pump
To enable SQL pump, add `postgres` to `tyk-pump.pump.backend` and add connection details for postgres under `global.postgres`. See [PostgresSQL Installation](#set-mongo-or-postgressql-connection-details-required) section above.

By default, it will enable Postgres Aggregate, Postgres Graph Aggregate, SQL Pump and SQL graph pump.


#### Uptime Pump
Uptime Pump can be configured by setting `pump.uptimePumpBackend` in values.yaml file. It supports the following values:
1. mongo: Used to set mongo pump for uptime analytics. Mongo Pump should be enabled.
2. postgres: Used to set postgres pump for uptime analytics. Postgres Pump should be enabled.
3. empty: Used to disable uptime analytics.

```yaml
    # uptimePumpBackend configures uptime Tyk Pump. ["", "mongo", "postgres"].
    # Set it to "" for disabling uptime Tyk Pump. By default, uptime pump is disabled.
    uptimePumpBackend: ""
```

#### Other Pumps
To setup other backends for pump, refer to this [document](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump/blob/master/README.md#pumps--back-ends-supported) and add the required environment variables in `pump.extraEnvs`


### Tyk Dashboard Configurations

#### Tyk Dashboard License (Required)

Tyk Dashboard License is required. It can be set up in `global.license.dashboard` or through secret `global.secrets.useSecretName`. The secret should contain a key called DashLicense.

```yaml
global:
  license:
    # The license key needed by Tyk Dashboard to work.
    #
    # NOTE: If you do not want to store license as a plain text in the file, you can use a Kubernetes secret
    # that stores the dashboard license. Please see `.global.secrets.useSecretName`.
    dashboard: ""
```

#### Enabling Dashboard TLS

Assuming that TLS certificates for the Tyk Dashboard are available in the Kubernetes Secret `tyk-dashboard-tls`, follow these steps to enable TLS:

1. Set `global.tls.dashboard` to `true`.
2. Set `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.tls.secretName` to the name of the Kubernetes secret containing TLS certificates for the Tyk Dashboard, in this case, `tyk-dashboard-tls`.
3. Define certificate configurations in `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.tls.certificates`, which generates `TYK_DB_HTTPSERVEROPTIONS_CERTIFICATES` for the Tyk Dashboard.

Optional Steps, if needed:
- Modify the secret mount path on the Tyk Dashboard Pod via `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.tls.certificatesMountPath`.
- If necessary, either enable `insecureSkipVerify` via `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.tls.certificates`, or mount CA information through `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.extraVolumes` and `tyk-dashboard.dashboard.extraVolumeMounts`.
- If the `tyk-bootstrap` chart is used to bootstrap the Tyk Dashboard, ensure that bootstrap app can validate certificate of Tyk Dashboard or enable `insecureSkipVerify` in the `tyk-bootstrap` chart.
- If the Tyk Gateway connects to the Tyk Dashboard, confirm that the Tyk Gateway has appropriate certificates for connecting to the Tyk Dashboard

### Tyk MDCB Configurations

#### Tyk MDCB License (Required)

Tyk MDCB requires a license to be set at `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.license`. This field is mandatory and must be configured.

To enhance security and avoid storing plaintext values for the MDCB license directly in the Helm value file, an alternative approach is available. You can store the license in a Kubernetes Secret and reference it externally.

Set the license in the Kubernetes Secret and provide the secret's name through `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.useSecretName`. The Secret must contain a key named `MDCBLicense`.

#### Tyk MDCB Listen Port

The `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.listenPort` field represents a RPC port which worker Tyk Gateways will connect to.
Setting `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.listenPort` field opens a port on MDCB container and MDCB service targets this port.
It is used to set `TYK_MDCB_LISTENPORT`

#### Tyk MDCB HTTP Port

The HTTP port for Tyk MDCB is configurable via the `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.httpPort` field.
This port enables MDCB to accept standard HTTP requests, such as health checks.

It also defines the path for liveness and readiness probes.
It is used to set `TYK_MDCB_HTTPPORT` in MDCB 2.6.0+ or `TYK_MDCB_HEALTHCHECKPORT` in MDCB 2.5.x or prior.

#### Enabling secured HTTP endpoints

The [MDCB OAS API]({{< ref "/tyk-mdcb-api" >}}) has secured HTTP endpoints, like `/dataplanes` which return list of gateway nodes connected. By default, this endpoint is disabled to avoid unintended leakage of data plane information. To enable this endpoint, set `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.security.enableHttpSecureEndpoints` to `true`. It is used to set `TYK_MDCB_SECURITY_ENABLEHTTPSECUREENDPOINTS`. Also, you need to set a secret that can be used to access this endpoint via `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.security.secret` field.

#### Enabling MDCB TLS

Assuming that TLS certificates for the Tyk MDCB are available in the Kubernetes Secret `mdcb-tls-secret`, follow these steps to enable TLS for RPC connection:
1. Set `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.tls.useSSL` to true.
2. Set `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.tls.secretName` to the name of the Kubernetes secret containing TLS certificates for the Tyk MDCB, in this case, `mdcb-tls-secret`.

```yaml
tyk-mdcb:
  mdcb:
    tls:
      # enables ssl for mdcb
      useSSL: true

      # the path to where the keys will be mounted in the pod
      certificatesMountPath: "/etc/certs"

      # location to pem encoded private key
      certificateKeyFile: "/etc/certs/tls.key"

      # location to pem encoded certificate
      certificateCertFile: "/etc/certs/tls.crt"

      # the name of the secret
      secretName: "mdcb-tls-secret"

      # the name of the volume
      volumeName: "mdcb-tls-secret-volume"
```

To enable TLS for MDCB HTTP connection, use `tyk-mdcb.mdcb.httpServerOptions`. The configuration includes settings such as `useSSL`, `certificateKeyFile`, `certificateCertFile` and `minVersion`. For other [HTTP server options]({{< ref "tyk-multi-data-centre/mdcb-configuration-options#http_server_options" >}}), users can utilize [extraEnvs](#setting-environment-variables) to configure additional parameters.

```yaml
tyk-mdcb:
  mdcb:
    # defines the SSL/TLS settings for the http server where the healthcheck is exposed
    httpServerOptions:
      # if enabled then the endpoints will be served over https
      useSSL: true
      certificateKeyFile: /path-to-cert-keyfile
      certificateCertFile: /path-to-certfile
      
      # For TLS 1.0 use 769, for TLS 1.1 use 770, for TLS 1.2 use 771, for TLS 1.3 use 772
      minVersion: 771
```

### Tyk Bootstrap Configurations

To enable bootstrapping, set `global.components.bootstrap` to `true`. It would run [tyk-k8s-bootstrap](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-k8s-bootstrap) to bootstrap `tyk-control-plane` and to create Kubernetes secrets that can be utilized in Tyk Operator and Tyk Developer Portal.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

During bootstrapping, admin user needs to reset its password. It may be denied by Dashboard OPA rules if [OPA]({{<ref "/tyk-dashboard/open-policy-agent">}}) was enabled. Please disable OPA during the initial bootstrapping or set Dashboard configuration [TYK_DB_SECURITY_ALLOWADMINRESETPASSWORD]({{<ref "tyk-dashboard/configuration#securityallow_admin_reset_password">}}) to true.
{{< /note >}}

#### Bootstrapped Environments

If Tyk is already bootstrapped, the application will bypass the creation of the Tyk Organization and Admin User, proceeding directly with the creation of Kubernetes Secrets.

Given that the Kubernetes Secrets require values for `TYK_AUTH` and `TYK_ORG`, it is essential to provide these values through the respective environment variables, called `TYK_K8SBOOTSTRAP_TYK_ADMIN_AUTH` for `TYK_AUTH` and `TYK_K8SBOOTSTRAP_TYK_ORG_ID` for `TYK_ORG`.

Ensure that these environment variables are set appropriately to `postInstall` hook for bootstrapped environments.

### Tyk Developer Portal Configurations

To enable Tyk Developer Portal, set `global.components.devPortal` to true, and configure below inside `tyk-dev-portal` section.

#### Tyk Developer Portal License (Required)

Tyk Developer Portal License is required. It can be set up in `tyk-dev-portal.license` or through secret `global.secrets.useSecretName`. The secret should contain a key called `DevPortalLicense`.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  # Tyk Developer Portal license.
  license: ""
```

#### Tyk Developer Portal Database

{{< note success >}}
**Note** 

SQLite support will be deprecated from Tyk 5.7.0. To avoid disrupution, please transition to PostgreSQL, MongoDB or one of the listed compatible alternatives.
{{< /note >}}

By default, Tyk Developer Portal use `sqlite3` to store portal metadata. If you want to use a different SQL Database, please modify the section below.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  database:
    # This selects the SQL dialect to be used
    # The supported values are mysql, postgres and sqlite3
    dialect: "sqlite3"
    connectionString: "db/portal.db"
    enableLogs: false
    maxRetries: 3
    retryDelay: 5000
```

#### Storage Settings

Tyk Developer Portal supports different storage options for storing the portal's CMS assets such as images, theme files and Open API Specification files. Please see the [Developer Portal Storage settings]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-enterprise-developer-portal/deploy/configuration#portal-settings">}}) page for all the available options. 

If you use the file system as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `fs`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.storage.persistence` to mount an existing persistent volume to Tyk Developer Portal.

If you use [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `s3`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.storage.s3` section with credentials to access AWS S3 bucket.

If you use database as storage, please set `tyk-dev-portal.storage.type` to `db`, and configure `tyk-dev-portal.database` section with database connection details.

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  # Sensitive configuration of Portal could be set using k8s secret
  # You can set following fields:
  # - DevPortalLicense - Sets LicenseKey for Developer Portal
  # - DevPortalStorageConnectionString - Sets connectionString for Developer Portal
  # - DevPortalAwsAccessKeyId - Sets AWS S3 Access Key ID
  # - DevPortalAwsSecretAccessKey - Sets AWS S3 Secret Access Key
  useSecretName: ""
  # The hostname to bind the Developer Portal to.
  hostName: tyk-dev-portal.org
  # Developer Portal license.
  license: ""
  # Developer portal can be deployed as StatefulSet or as Deployment
  kind: StatefulSet
  storage:
    # User can set the storage type for portal.
    # Supported types: fs, s3, db
    type: "db"
    # Configuration values for using s3 as storage for Tyk Developer Portal
    # In case you want to provide the key ID and access key via secrets please
    # refer to the existing secret inside the helm chart or the
    # .Values.useSecretName field
    s3:
      awsAccessKeyid: your-access-key
      awsSecretAccessKey: your-secret-key
      region: sa-east-1
      endpoint: https://s3.sa-east-1.amazonaws.com
      bucket: your-portal-bucket
      acl: private
      presign_urls: true
    persistence:
      mountExistingPVC: ""
      storageClass: ""
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      size: 8Gi
      annotations: {}
      labels: {}
      selector: {}
  database:
    # This selects the SQL dialect to be used
    # The supported values are mysql, postgres and sqlite3
    dialect: "sqlite3"
    connectionString: "db/portal.db"
    enableLogs: false
    maxRetries: 3
    retryDelay: 5000
```

#### Other Configurations

Other [Developer Portal configurations]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-enterprise-developer-portal/deploy/configuration">}}) can be set by using environment variables with `extraEnvs` fields, e.g.:

```yaml
tyk-dev-portal:
  extraEnvs:
  - name: PORTAL_LOG_LEVEL
    value: debug
```

### Tyk Operator Configurations

Tyk Operator is a licensed component that requires a valid key for operation. 
Please refer to the [Tyk Operator Installation Guide]({{<ref "/api-management/automations#install-and-configure-tyk-operator">}})
for detailed information on the installation and upgrade processes. 

Prior to installing Tyk Operator, ensure that a valid license key is provided by setting `global.license.operator` field in values.yaml file. You can set license key via a Kubernetes secret using `global.secrets.useSecretName` field. The secret should contain a key called `OperatorLicense`.

In order to enable installing Tyk Operator along-side Tyk Control Plane installation, please set `global.components.operator`
to `true`.

All other configurations related to Tyk Operator are available under `tyk-operator` section of `values.yaml` file.

> Tyk Operator needs a cert-manager to be installed. Ensure that cert-manager is installed as described in the
> official documentation: [Installing Tyk Operator]({{<ref "/api-management/automations#install-and-configure-tyk-operator">}}).
